# Render dataformat

In this repository you can find multiple scripts that can be used to convert files that can be used in the transition model website.

## Installation

Clone the repository to your local machine using the following command:

```
git clone https://github.com/kalavasta/render-dataformat.git
```

Install the required packages:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Scripts

### index.py

This script will convert the excel files to json files that can be used in the transition model website.

The script will create a json file in the json folder for each year in the excel sheets. The json file will contain all the data from the excel file for that year, as well as all the data from the excel file for the base year (2021). The exported json files can be used in transition model website by uploading one of them via "Import Dataformats".


#### Usage

Run the following script. Replace `<excel_folder>` with the folder containing the excel files and `<json_folder>` with the folder where you want to save the json files. The script will create the json folder if it does not exist.

```
python index.py <excel_folder> <json_folder>
```

This example script will use the excel and json folder at the root of this project.

```
python index.py excel json
```


#### Implementation

When the JSON files have been generated, they can be imported into a session or scenario. This is illustrated in the `import_example.py` file, located in the root folder of this repository.
This works in the following manner. The first step is to create a session from the scenario that you want to use. The default is the `base` scenario, which contains the default values of a scenario. Next, the value of the created JSON file in the corresponding session, and outputs can be requested. Afterwards, the session is deleted, this step is optional.

### generate_from_list.py

This script is for use with Cluster Analysis.xlsx: Site_resultaten_voor_upload. The script will create a json file in the json folder for each year in the excel sheet. The json file will contain all the data from the excel file for that year, as well as all the data from the excel file for the base year (2021). The exported json files can be used in transition model website by uploading one of them via "Import Dataformats".


#### Usage

Run the following script. Replace `<excel_folder>` with the folder containing the excel files and `<json_folder>` with the folder where you want to save the json files. The script will create the json folder if it does not exist.

```
python generate_from_list.py <excel_folder> <json_folder>
```

This example script will use the excel and json folder at the root of this project.

```
python generate_from_list.py excel json
```

### create_sessions.py

This script is used to combine multiple JSON files into sessions.


#### Usage

Within the `scenarios` folder in the root of this repository you can add multiple folders. Add the JSON files you want your sessions to be created with to the corresponding folder. From each folder a session will be created.

Run the following script.
```
python create_sessions.py
```

This will create a JSON file called `sessions.json` in the root folder. This file contains all the sessions that have been created.

If you would like to use a default scenario other than 'Base year', you can add this as a parameter to the script. For example:
```
python create_sessions.py "Public CTM Scenario 2030"
```


### create_dataformat.py

This script is used to create a dataformat excel for each site in a different excel file. To run this script, Excel needs to be installed on your device and all files handled by the script must be closed. The files that cannot be open while running the script include the the input file, the dataformat template, and all files generated by the script. The script will open Excel while running, it's best not to use your device while the script is running.

#### Usage

Run the following script. Replace `<excel_file>` with the excel file you want to convert and `<output_folder>` with the name of the output folder.

```
python create_dataformat.py <excel_file> <output_folder>
```

This example script will use the excel file at the root of this project and create a file called `dataformat.xlsx`.

```
python create_dataformat.py input_dataformat.xlsx dataformats
```


## License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for license rights and limitations (MIT).
